
AA Conservation version 1.0b 26 August 2010

This program allows calculation of conservation of amino acids in
multiple sequence alignments.
It implements 15 different conservation scores as described by Valdar in
his paper (Scoring Residue Conservation, PROTEINS: Structure, Function
and Genetics 48:227-241 (2002)) and SMERFS scoring algorithm as described
by Manning, Jefferson and Barton (The contrasting properties of conservation
and correlated phylogeny in protein functional residue prediction,
BMC Bioinformatics (2008)).

The conservation algorithms supported are:

KABAT, JORES, SCHNEIDER, SHENKIN, GERSTEIN, TAYLOR_GAPS, TAYLOR_NO_GAPS, 
ZVELIBIL, KARLIN, ARMON, THOMPSON, NOT_LANCET, MIRNY, WILLIAMSON, 
LANDGRAF, SANDER, VALDAR, SMERFS

Input format is either a FASTA formatted file containing aligned sequences with 
gaps or a Clustal alignment. The valid gap characters are *, -, space character,
X and . (a dot). By default program prints the results to the command window. 
If the output file is provided the results are printed to the file in two 
possible formats with or without an alignment.
If format is not specified, the program outputs conservation scores without 
alignment. The scores can be normalized or not. By default the scores are not 
normalized. If SMERFS is called and no parameters for SMERFS are provided
it is run with the default parameters (window width of 7, column score is set to
the middle column, gap% cutoff of 0.1). If different values for SMERFS parameters 
are required than all three parameters must be provided. Details of the program 
execution can be recorded to a separate file if an appropriate file path is 
provided.

List of command line arguments:

-m= - precedes a comma separated list of method names
      EXAMPLE: -m=KABAT,JORES,GERSTEIN
      If no method is specified request for all is assumed. 
-i= - precedes a full path to the input FASTA file
-o= - precedes a full path to the output file
-t= - precedes the number of CPUs (CPU cores more precisely) to use. Defaults to 
	  all processors available on the machine.
      Please note that a single method computation is not sped up by this option, 
      the speed up is only achieved if multiple methods are requested 
-f= - precedes the format  of the results in the output file
      two different formats are possible:
      RESULTS_WITH_ALIGNMENT
      RESULTS_NO_ALIGNMENT
-s= - precedes a list of three comma separated parameters for SMERFS
      the order of parameters is as following:
      1. window width - an integer and an odd number
      2. how to allocate window scores to columns, two ways are possible:
	     MID_SCORE - gives the window score to the middle column
	     MAX_SCORE - gives the column the highest score of all the windows it 
	     belongs to
      3. gap percentage cutoff - a float greater than 0 and smaller or equal 1
      EXAMPLE: -s=5,MID_SCORE,0.1
      
-d= - precedes a full path to a file where program execution details are to be 
      listed  
-g= - precedes comma separated list of gap characters provided by the user, if 
      you're using an unusual gap character
      (not a -,., ,*,X) you have to provide it. If you you provide this list you 
      have to list all the gaps accepted. Including those that were previously 
      treated as a default.      
-n - using this key causes the results to be normalized. 
	 Normalized results have values between 0 and 1. Please note however, that 
	 some results cannot be normalized. There are only a few cases than this is 
	 true. In such a case, the system returns not normalized value, and log the
	 issue in the statistics file and to the standard error stream. TAYLOR_GAPS 
	 most often produces the results that cannot be normalized.  
	 The following formula is used for normalization 
			n = (d - dmin)/(dmax - dmin)
	 Negative results first converted to positive by adding an absolute value of
	 the most negative result. 

EXAMPLE HOW TO RUN THE PROGRAM:
java -jar <jar name> -m=KABAT,SMERFS -i=prot1 -o=prot1_results 
-f=RESULTS_NO_ALIGNMENT -n

As a result of the execution KABAT and SMERFS scores will be calculated. 
Input comes form prot1 file and an output without an alignment is recorded to 
prot1_results file. 

Authors: Agnieszka Golicz, Peter Troshin, David Martin and Geoff Barton.
Please visit http://www.compbio.dundee.ac.uk for further information.
 